README.md, before:

# uns - unshifted programming language

uns is a lispy programming language using primarily the characters one can reach without using the shift key

--

i made uns because i was away on vacation and my shift key broke

this should not stop you from programming

so i did what anyone would, made an unshifted programming language that doesn't require the shift key

uns uses `[]` for lists, because the more common round parantheses are not reachable without the shift key

uns uses lowercase characters, `-`, `=` and `.` for symbols

if you're lucky and have a fully functional keyboard you can use uppercase characters inside strings

strings do not provide the otherwise common escape characters eventhough backslash `\` is available without the shift key

some characters seem to unfairly be unshifted, like backtick and backslash, and are illegal in uns

commas are also not allowed, i've written enough commas for a lifetime, my comma key is fine though

comments start with `;` and end at the end of the line

uns has special forms here's if

```
[if 0 'true' 'false'] ; => 'false'
[if 1 'true' 'false'] ; => 'true' 
```
0 is false, everything else is true

you can define functions with `func`
```
[func inc [n] [add n 1]] ; => []
[inc 1] ; => 2
```
you don't have closures or anonymous functions and function names are not values

you have local variables with `let`
```
[let [x 1] [add x 1]] ; => 2
[let [x 1 y x] [add y 1]] ; => 2
```

instead of recursion you use `loop` and `cont`
```
[loop [i 0 r 0]
  [if [lt i 11]
    [cont [inc i] [add i r]]
    r]] ; => 55
```

but you can still use recursion if you want
```
[func recursive-gauss [n]
  [if [eq n 0]
    0
    [add n [recursive-gauss [dec n]]]]]
[recursive-gauss 10] ; => 55
```

you can run uns by

```
npm install
node . # to start the repl
node . examples/demo.uns # to run a file
```

Commit message:

why does uns have case?

README.md, after:

# uns - unshifted programming language

uns is a lispy programming language using primarily the characters one can reach without using the shift key

--

i made uns because i was away on vacation and my shift key broke

this should not stop you from programming

so i did what anyone would, made an unshifted programming language that doesn't require the shift key

uns uses `[]` for lists, because the more common round parantheses are not reachable without the shift key

uns uses lowercase characters, `-`, `=` and `.` for symbols

if you're lucky and have a fully functional keyboard you can use uppercase characters inside strings

strings do not provide the otherwise common escape characters eventhough backslash `\` is available without the shift key

some characters seem to unfairly be unshifted, like backtick and backslash, and are illegal in uns

commas are also not allowed, i've written enough commas for a lifetime, my comma key is fine though

comments start with `;` and end at the end of the line

uns has special forms here's if

```
[if 0 'true' 'false'] ; => 'false'
[if 1 'true' 'false'] ; => 'true' 
```
0 is false, everything else is true

you can define functions with `func`
```
[func inc [n] [add n 1]] ; => []
[inc 1] ; => 2
```
you don't have closures or anonymous functions and function names are not values

you have local variables with `let`
```
[let [x 1] [add x 1]] ; => 2
[let [x 1 y x] [add y 1]] ; => 2
```

instead of recursion you use `loop` and `cont`
```
[loop [i 0 r 0]
  [if [lt i 11]
    [cont [inc i] [add i r]]
    r]] ; => 55
```

but you can still use recursion if you want
```
[func recursive-gauss [n]
  [if [eq n 0]
    0
    [add n [recursive-gauss [dec n]]]]]
[recursive-gauss 10] ; => 55
```

for whatever reason you have case expressions in uns

```
[case 1
  1 'one'
  2 'two'
  'other'] ; => 'one'
[case 6
  [1 3 5 7 9] 'odd'
  [0 2 4 6 8] 'even'
  'other'] ; => 'even'
```

you can run uns by

```
npm install
node . # to start the repl
node . examples/demo.uns # to run a file
```
